we have the world's most rock-solid case
for the foundation of our movement and
yet look at the reality of the movement
we managed to build on top of it we've
had ten years of laughable failure
Louis folia on the keyboard quote it's
getting harder for me to roll my eyes at
vegans according to the dead nation's
animal agriculture is responsible for
14.5 percent of greenhouse gas emissions
the majority of that comes from beef and
dairy if we don't reduce emissions the
IRC see reports that climate change
outcomes we once thought were far away
are now expected by 2040 things like
we're sending droughts wildfires and
food shortages meanwhile the production
of one kilogram of beef 2.2 pounds
requires over 15,000 liters of water
over all a normal diet that includes
dairy eggs meat and fish is almost twice
as water intensive as a vegan diet
eating meat is also bad if your health
researchers recently found that the risk
of death from cardiovascular disease is
reduced by 40% when individuals adopt a
plant-based diet the risk of coronary
heart disease also drops by 40%
then there's the animal cruelty argument
the conditions on large scale industrial
farms are not good to say the least
it's just pasta once that is it in fact
the case Louis that you have any
familiarity with what conditions are
like on small-scale non industrial farms
is are you actually comparing something
known to something else you know are you
comparing something known to something
unknown big business in agriculture
really is more efficient especially if
you care about ecology the tragic but
true news is that industrial agriculture
is more ethical than small-scale
basically third world conditions of meat
production because the whole impact on
the environment water the amount of food
consumed by the animals and the amount
of suffering the animals go through it's
worse there's this old phrase small is
beautiful a lot of people just assume
like a big grocery stores evil and a
small local
three stores somehow virtuous and
morally pure I lose I sling a small
slaughterhouse is not virtuous and
poorly pure you can spend time on a
small poverty-stricken
family-run poultry farm in Cambodia I've
done this I used to live in Cambodia you
can be on a small family-run goat farm
even of farm producing goat milk rather
than goat meat it's horrifying at every
stage it's horrifying for the animals
their slaughter and even the questions
of Hygiene and the ecology and the
impact it's very easy I don't know why
people find it easy to vilify
large-scale industrial agriculture but
it's on that large scale and those
industrialized methods that are actually
more efficient and less efficient
doesn't mean more morally virtuous
anyway how do you think this is gonna
end he's just said there are all these
empirically verifiable obvious reasons
to support veganism he's saying it's
harder to roll his eyes at vegans what
does that really mean here's the
conclusion guys excuse me if this sounds
preachy of what you're excused any time
doing I'm just grappling with all this
myself as a big eater who consumes more
than his fair share of burgers wings and
breakfast bacon yeah big eater there's a
there's a euphemism I wonder what it
says on urban dictionary about that job
I'm a big eater
it's just reached the point where the
empirical evidence is overwhelming my
knee-jerk resistance to being nanny
nanny if you drink too much alcohol
who's gonna nanny you in this life
nobody nobody cares you can drink
yourself to death
yeah and it's cheap but it's affordable
you can become a wine out keeping an
alcoholic if you want sobriety it's on
you if you want to live a life with some
sense of self-discipline and moral
purpose it's on you if you're gonna eat
breakfast bacon / kurz and wings if
you're going to be a big eater live a
life of you know reckless
environmentally destructive immoral
self-indulgence nope nobody's going to
nanny you man all these corporations are
going
money off of you McDonald's is gonna put
up posters appealing to that side of
your character and they're all gonna
take your money they're all gonna sit
you down and feed you this stuff and
make you feel welcome all these
restaurants not just the cheap
restaurants high-end restaurant 5-star
restaurants whatever luxury restaurants
do they all want your money
well same way the bars want your money
for alcohol same way the crack dealer
wants to sell you cocaine it's on you
we're grown-ups ma'am there are no
nannies okay either you have some sense
of moral purpose and self discipline
yourself or you don't
I haven't eaten my last steak but I'm
definitely done ripping vegans and
vegetarians about their a version a
version interesting choice of word after
you've just done all this research on
the subject living vegans and
vegetarians shouldn't have to defend
their diets the rest of us should so
let's go back briefly to the opening
statement quote it's getting harder for
me to roll my eyes at vegans is it I've
had a bunch of videos lately drawing
attention to the real insanity
of the people who were in leadership
positions within veganism now some of
those people came into positions of
prominence and leadership accidentally
not by any planning or vision on their
own part some of them came to those
positions kind of organically using the
word organic in the 21st century
Internet sense we're just you know
people like their YouTube videos P they
got popular who knows why people shared
the link people got interested and you
know they ended up in literature
position but to a very large extent you
have large powerful well organized
well-funded organizations making
executive decisions about who is gonna
speak at la veg fest and who is not
pedda People for the Ethical Treatment
of Animals if you look at their annual
budget you will break down weeping it's
unbelievable how many millions of
dollars per year they have to waste and
they do waste it and they looked at that
budget and they looked at YouTube social
influencers Stella Raye who is not vegan
and they decided to promote her on Petta
and they decided to promote peda through
her people of the Ethical Treatment of
Animals it's one absurdity after another
the annual sexiest vegan competition
I've talked about this before it's one
of the least popular videos on my
channel
people-people for whatever reason we're
shocked and offended was pointing this
out look guys pet is sexually sexist
vegan competition it's not even sexy and
it doesn't promote veganism what it
promotes is precisely this kind of
contempt from people for like Louis
it makes us condensable it makes people
roll their eyes it makes us seem
ridiculous it's not putting forward a
sober and purely valid ecological and
ethical case for veganism it's it's
making veganism look like something that
has to be promoted through lies through
the ridiculous glitzy marketing and
again it doesn't make sense on so many
levels and sorry I know this is one
example I can't go on and on forever but
vegans for the past ten years have been
in a situation where they have to
despise their own leadership and we have
to question who elected these people who
put them in positions of power vegans
have to despise petaa people with
ethical Tribunal's vegans have to
despise the Humane Society of the United
States of America Humane Society of
Australia so on and so forth vegans are
in a position that's roughly parallel to
ecology as a movement whole because
ecology has not been able to respect or
revere the leadership of the Green Party
not in any country I'm familiar with I
don't know if some of you are living in
Germany you might disagree I know
Germany's at a relatively relatively
successful Green Party but in the
english-speaking world this is not a
simple case we can say there's a green
movement led by a green party there
isn't a vegan movement led by a vegan
party nor anything else like that and
the fact that these people who were
given platforms given promotion by
well-funded moneyed organizations you
know Tim shieff Tim shieff was invited
to speak at la veg fest he was formally
promoted this way and obviously not only
at la veg fest I think probably at vegan
events in London England across Europe
so on and so forth these were the people
literally put on stage
put behind a microphone put it a podium
to speak on these issues and guys nobody
knows better than I do
oh how tightly controlled those events
are those organizations would never let
someone like me speak the organizations
that exist in veganism even the ones
that try to have a punk-rock attitude
act like it's fun and rebellious and
open they won't even let me attend their
street protests by I'm considered so
controversial the intellectual content
of this channel is so shocking that like
I can't attend a silent vigil in
Vancouver think about that think about
the level of misdirected self censorship
self-hatred and in turn a scene conflict
that exists within veganism where if I
want to do something positive I either
have to do it alone or I basically have
to provide a hundred percent of the
leadership organization and funding even
when I could do that by the way well I
had I had a very modest inheritance for
my father and I offered to completely
pay for an event in Vancouver and I
couldn't I couldn't even get one other
person to cooperate not even one it was
a little bit of an intellectual bar to
entry there I wasn't inviting Complete
Idiot's but it hey guys let's have a
conference let's let's present papers on
this topic let's gather the papers
together publish them as a book let's do
something that's really trying to put
the future of the vegan movement on a
better footing I didn't have one person
willing to participate and that's when I
was not just providing leadership and
booking the room but I said okay at this
moment I have some money in the bank and
I can I can pay for it
that's not that's not my situation hell
look you know many people find it
controversial or shocking to question
the competence the intelligence and the
sanity of the people who happen to have
been in leadership positions in veganism
and they questioned it because on some
level they think it would be morally
virtuous to just support somebody just
promote somebody even if there are nut
cases said well this guy's a bit
eccentric he's a bit cracked he's a bit
crazy but so what he's he's one of us
he's vegan so let's just promote him and
push him forward as
a leader in the vegan movement and then
you see normally within two or three
years you see what the consequences of
that are 1 would be leader is pushed to
the front again and again it becomes the
person who's in the newspaper articles
and on TV and at the podium even at our
own events right and then one by one
they fall from grace and in the
background which you don't see like 4
billion people like Lois folia who just
keep rolling their eyes okay this is the
world's easiest argument to make
veganism is real simple it's a real
straightforward ok if you want to make
an argument for solar power it's not
easy if you want to make an argument for
phasing out and replacing automobiles
that are powered by fossil fuels by
gasoline it's not easy when you look
into the details I don't think within my
lifetime we're gonna see cars running on
fossil fuels remove from the roads I
think it's going to continue long after
I'm dead we really don't have a
technology that's superior in a simple
sense to eclipse cars and trucks that we
open the Rose net we don't you know
battery based electric cars are deeply
deeply flawed there are a lot of
problems with them on a small scale on a
large scale
we're not going to see the golf cart
replace the long haul truck we're not
not in my lifetime ok it's the
technology of the veggie burger the
technology of the bean the technology of
baked beans makes beef completely
obsolete it has 100 percent positive
impacts ethically ecologically for your
health etc etc we have the world's most
rock-solid case for the foundation of
our movement and yet look at the reality
of the movement we managed to build on
top of it we've had ten years of
laughable failure and even after seeing
on the fad all the facts seeing all the
facts making a YouTube video about it
someone like Louie folia he's still
rolling his eyes at you
[Music]